**_4. Use an executive group to reconcile budget proposals._**

Departments and agencies are responsible for preparing budget proposals that are responsive to the goals, strategies, and criteria discussed above. In some cases, multiple groups may submit proposals in support of one goal and one group may submit proposals in support of multiple goals. The shift in focus from departments to citywide goals and programs shifts the focus away from department-driven decision making and enables departments to frame their decisions in terms of community goals. Usually, the mayor’s office, city manager’s office, or the central budget department is responsible for aligning budget requests and proposals to ensure that efforts to accomplish citywide goals are coordinated.

Notably, some cities expand the focus on coordinating priorities to include nonprofits applying for city funding and requiring these organizations to submit budget requests in alignment with citywide goals. This helps ensure that all entities participating in the budget process are focusing on citywide goals. *See Appendix D for more information on how Chattanooga incorporates nonprofits into its performance-based budgeting process.*

Richmond, VA, relies on the city’s budget staff, chief administrative officer,
mayor, and city council to review submitted budget requests for its [performance-based budgeting program](http://www.richmondgov.com/budget/index.aspx). After the citywide budget proposal evaluation teams have reviewed and evaluated budget proposals, they hold working sessions with the mayor to discuss issues and concerns in making funding decisions for both the operating and capital budgets. Once the mayor has a deep understanding of the budget proposals and how they align with each other and Richmond’s citywide priorities, the budget is presented to city council for additional review and coordination of proposals. Finally, public hearings are held before the budget is adopted so the community can give input on the budget proposals. See sections 3 and 4 of Richmond’s [Adopted Biennial Fiscal Plans for Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015 & Adopted Capital Improvement Program for Fiscal Years 2014–2018](http://www.richmondgov.com/budget/documents/BiennialPlans/2014-15_AdoptedBiennialAndCIP_FY14-FY18.pdf).
